you have to really put yourself in the
desperate frame of mind of someone who
pays a hundred and twenty dollars and
then sits there and listens to a guided
meditation from Sam Harris twice a day
every day with their eyes closed and
their legs crossed what are Sam Harris's
credentials in Buddhism how did Sam
Harris become a guru who's qualified to
lead group meditation or if you got
invitation what are Sam Harris's
motivations what is the enlightenment
he's pushed you the way to what are the
results you're supposed to expect from
this man there's so many obvious
outrageous questions that these people
are not asking because they're desperate
for help they're desperate for hope
they're desperate for reassurance they
yearn for the veneer of something sacred
and profound to come into their lives
and another thing that I'm now doing in
the course I've begun interviewing other
meditation teachers and trying to get to
the bottom of what they teach and why
they teach it these will be deep dives
into the minutiae of consciousness and
what can be cleaned about it from
first-person methods whether they be
contemplative or psychedelic or
philosophical or otherwise from the
get-go you see that most of the apps
features are not available if you don't
subscribe to a paid monthly subscription
I greatly disagree with monetizing
meditation like this it should really be
more of a symbolic donation type of
thing monetizing techniques that have
been around for thousands of years seems
like something that mr. Harris would be
against
nevertheless the app is very well and
beautifully designed way too expensive
this reviewer comments I might consider
it for a couple of pounds a month or buy
it outright for about thirty pounds
which would still be very generous
compared with most digital media at the
current price it feels like people are
being taken advantage of being sold
old a glittery shiny coat of paint over
the top of what should be universal and
or free knowledge well how how much does
it cut ah yes a hundred and twenty
dollars per year but the first five
meditations are free over price this
reviewer says stop paying a lot each
month and you lose access to anything
you've already listened to which is for
the most part
ten minutes of recorded silence the
lessons are fine and probably healthy
but the monetization sucks it's designed
for someone that plans to listen to
everything in a month or two and never
wants to hear it again what started off
as a really good app is now becoming
exceedingly repetitive and irritating I
love the content don't get me wrong but
it's becoming so repetitive that I'm
able to predict what he's going to say
next because I've heard it several times
before and I can't meditate well to
something I've heard before and if I
hear the meta one again I'm going to
scream and as always with matters of
faith those who think they truly get it
those who think they truly understand
those who think they're truly happy they
are the most deceived they are the most
pitiable of all quote I have been using
this daily sometimes twice daily for the
last three weeks overall the experience
has been life-changing and the relative
importance of Sam Maris is waking up
gross all the time possibly because look
guys if you just replace the word
meditation with prayer if you're talking
about people praying multiple times a
day
guided prayer with Sam Harris would you
be willing then to recognize that this
is a religion why is it that when he
uses the word meditation to promote and
frankly sell what he's doing everyone's
able to rubber-stamp this as if it's
some kind of legitimate science coming
out of the mouth of a soup
oddly legitimate advocate for atheism
and secularism in the Western world like
you to consider what is real in this
moment that is what actually exists so
the sense of what is there for us in
each moment is bound up with this sense
of space now we can get closer to the
truth by importing time into our
thinking about things we can think in
terms of processes rather than things we
can turn nouns into verbs you as a
person are not really a thing you're a
process you're a stream of actions and
experiences and your moment to moment
engagement with the world of things and
ideas changes you you acquire new skills
and opinions and desires and concerns
you're not precisely who you were
yesterday
and you don't exactly know who you'll be
tomorrow everything you experience is
made of moments in time but the real
significance of time is not what happens
on the calendar or on the clock but in
our minds the true source of profundity
is attention that is the cash value of
time the real pleasure isn't in the
object it's in your mind
it's a matter of what it feels like to
give this thing your attention if on the
other hand you're recognizing the nature
of consciousness it also doesn't matter
where you are or what time it is because
the moment is profound it's in this
middle place where you're distracted
with the objects and people and places
that matter to you what it really does
seem to matter what you have and where
you are your attention is bound up with
what you're seeing and hearing and
thinking in a way that play is upon your
preferences there was a point I'd heard
white supremacists make
in defense of their own immigration
stance right which is to say they well
they want no immigration they want to
live in a white ethno state and then
when right-thinking people attack this
as a symptom of pure evil the white
supremacists might say well what about
Japan right Japan has the same policy
the Japanese want to keep Japan for the
Japanese they don't want any
pink-skinned barbarians living among
them right why isn't that a racist
policy now that's actually an
interesting point so this is something I
brought up with Jared just to talk about
Japan because it's interesting right
it's oh yeah well what about Japan why
aren't we viewing this policy as
shocking evidence of a racist worldview
or something if not racism something
take that point from Hitler himself if
it's interesting the source simply
doesn't matter anyway this seems to be
the kind of thing that can make people
think that the mask is slipping right or
that I am dog whistling in some way to
extremists in the moment you notice
you've been lost in thought simply
observe the thought itself whether it's
images or language notice how it
disappears and immediately come back to
the sensations of breathing and as you
do this you can open your awareness to
all sensation there's nothing magical
about the breath simply let your
awareness be the space in which each
sensation arises take a moment to feel
the sensations of your face and head
perhaps it feels like your awareness is
behind your face or in your head but the
feelings of your face and your head are
in awareness in this moment they're
appearing in the same place where you're
thinking your thoughts are not in your
head your awareness or consciousness is
not in your head in fact what you're
calling the world is appearing in the
same space what you see is appearing in
the same space
were thoughts and emotions and
sensations and sounds are arising in
each moment close your eyes again and
stare into the darkness behind your
eyelids everything you can notice is
simply
a perturbation of consciousness happy
thoughts make us happy sad thoughts make
us sad but there's actually an illusion
here that we're not seeing the
consciousness that is aware of happiness
and the consciousness which is aware of
sadness is not actually ever taking the
form of those moods meditation is simply
a means to continually drop back into
this state of mirror witnessing of
everything that arises
once again you can open your eyes and
notice any apparent change does it feel
like your experience just got bigger in
some way the place you see with open
eyes is the same place where you are
thinking and feeling it's very easy to
debunk the pseudo spiritual arguments
presented by Sam Harris if you just take
the time to write them out clearly
bullet point by bullet point and present
them as a flow chart rather than sitting
with your eyes closed in a reverential
attitude of passively receiving them
while meditating very rapidly the
seemingly profound equivocations between
slightly exotic sounding words that he
presents are reduced to laughable
pointless plea and astok dead ended
reasoning something that can't even be
called philosophy but ultimately it's
pointless for me to sit down and do this
with you I want to end this video by
asking you in all seriousness if you
know someone who's under the influence
of sam harris if you know someone who's
paying a hundred and twenty dollars a
year to be a member of his cult reach
out to them now and try to talk through
with them just what nonsense the
says maybe take the time to say hey if
we take this so-called meditation he's
presenting here on the true meaning of
the self or the true meaning of
consciousness and if we write it out in
plain English and make it into a
flowchart can we maybe challenge this
assumption you have that this is someone
who shared with you
profound and esoteric wisdom can we
maybe challenge the aura of the sacred
and the holy that this so-called secular
scientist has somehow appropriated
through himself the warning signs with
Sam Harris are very clear and he's done
us all a favor by sharing the podium
with cult leaders who do not pretend to
be secular who do not pretend to be
atheist who do not pretend to be
scientists as he does if you just look
up the names of some of the people he's
invited on his show to discuss
meditation or even people who've
presented guided meditations through his
app through his podcast and so on with
him for him and so on you will soon find
that many of these names are people who
have credentials from various schools of
Buddhism Hinduism for the most part
they're white Western English speaking
people whose ideas about Buddhism and
Hinduism are five steps removed from any
primary source they never actually
learned the ancient languages than ever
stated tention scriptures but
nevertheless they are overtly dogmatic
religious leaders and if you listen to
what they have to say they are teaching
precisely the same doctrine as sam
harris very often using precisely the
same imagery the same similes the same
reasoning I just loaded up Locke Kelly
first name Locke last name Kelly one of
these guys Sam Harris shares the stage
with and it sounds like sam Harris has
ripped off some of that guy's Act I
think it could just be they both read
the same self-help book so they're both
working with the same sources but you
know specific images oh ma
in the storm you are the storm you think
you and your mind are two different
things but really you are the storm
exactly the same imagery exactly the
same so-called reasoning or guided
meditation this is not the only example
you have to really put yourself in the
desperate frame of mind of someone who
pays a hundred and twenty dollars and
then sits there and listens to a guided
meditation from sam harris twice a day
every day with their eyes closed and
their legs crossed sam harris in the
year 2020 is no longer a secular atheist
leader he is the leader of his own
dogmatic religious cult meditation
movement what are sam Harris's
credentials in buddhism how did sam
harris become a guru who's qualified to
lead group meditation or if you got
invitation
what are sam harris motivations what is
the enlightenment he's pushed you the
way to what are the results you're
supposed to expect from this man there's
so many obvious outrageous questions
that these people are not asking because
they're desperate for help they're
desperate for hope they're desperate for
reassurance they yearn for the veneer of
something sacred and profound to come
into their lives think for a moment
about the beginnings of Scientology
there was a time when people thought
Scientology and Dianetics legitimately
had something to do with science and
psychology
remember that the beginnings of the cult
of sam harris likewise have a merger of
this guy seemingly having a legitimate
university diploma in the science of the
mind and him having seemingly legitimate
peer-reviewed publications and books
with impressive sounding titles when you
look into those actual publications if
you read his article there's a book it
all falls apart under inspection pretty
quickly but nevertheless we have a
situation you're very much like the
transition to Scientology and diane
made from pseudoscience to outright cult
if you don't know what the harm ends in
people becoming true believers in the
doctrine of Sam Harris if you don't know
what the danger is take a look back at
the first few years of the history of
Scientology
and ask yourself the people who got
involved at that stage did they have any
idea where this was gonna go in the next
five years and now let's think about our
own lifetimes with Sam Harris when you
think back five years ago and 10 years
ago did you have any idea Sam Harris was
gonna take it this far did you have any
idea he was gonna be selling this app
with guided meditation and presenting
himself ostensibly and actually as a
spiritual guru in this way and then
where do you think he's gonna go next
what do you think happens in the next
five years and I'm not asking how that
might be bad or harmful for sam Harris
I'm asking how that might be dangerous
destructive for people who are desperate
enough and needy enough to reach out for
and cling to the kind of peculiar
guidance this man is now offering
you